README.md, before:

# BridgeQL


`bridgeql` is part of VMware's support for open source development
and community.

A library which will add feature to serve your model over rest API
* This will allow users to make ORM query based on any models present in the django app
* This will ask user to provide request in defined format and will serve the API response as json data
* This will allow users to make filter, selection, ordering, slicing and count of model objects

As of today we only support for [django](https://www.djangoproject.com/), will add support for [sqlalchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/) soon.


## License

`bridgeql` is release under the BSD-2 license, see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.

SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause

## Django Integration

### Installation

You can install it directly from [pypi.org](https://pypi.org/project/bridgeql/) using
```shell
pip install bridgeql
```

The bridgeql library can be integrated to the Django app by editing settings
file by including `bridgeql` in the `settings.INSTALLED_APPS` variable.
Another change required is to add a url to your existing project as

```
    projectname/projectname/settings.py
```

```python

INSTALLED_APPS = [
    ...
    'bridgeql',
    ...
    ]

```

**URLs Configuration**

In your project you can edit `urls.py`, to include the `bridgeql` urls.

```python
from bridgeql.django import urls as bridgeql_urls
...

urlpatterns = [
    ...
    path('api/bridgeql/', include(bridgeql_urls)),
    ...
]
...
```
This way your app will be ready to serve the REST API to expose model query, you can request an API like follows:
```python
    params = {
       'db_name': 'db1',
       'app_name': 'machine', # required
       'model_name': 'Machine', # required
       'filter': {
           'os__name': 'os-name-1'
        },
        'fields': ['ip', 'name', 'id'],
        'exclude': {
           'name': 'machine-name-11'
        },
        'order_by': ['ip'],
        'limit': 5,
        'offset': 10, # default 0
    }
    api_url = '<yoursite.com>/api/bridgeql/dj_read'
    resp = make_get_api_call(api_url, {'payload': json.dumps(params)})
    result = resp.json()
```

The above parameters will translate into running the model query for `Machine` model of `machine` django app.

```python
Machine.objects.using('db1')
                .filter(os__name = 'os-name-1')
                .exclude(name = 'machine-name-11')
                .values(['ip', 'name', 'id'])
                .order_by('ip')[10:15] # offset: offset + limit
```

____
### BridgeQL Settings

Settings available in `BridgeQL` and their default values

**BRIDGEQL_RESTRICTED_MODELS**

Default: `{}` (Empty dictionary)

Dictionary mapping **app_label.model_name** strings to list/bool(True). The value represents list of fields to be restricted for the model as provided in key. If the value is set to `True`, all the fields of that model will be restricted to lookup.

```python
BRIDGEQL_RESTRICTED_MODELS = {
    'auth.User': True,
    'machine.OperatingSystem': ['license_key'],
}
```
______

**BRIDGEQL_AUTHENTICATION_DECORATOR**

Default: `''` (Empty string)

Above setting allows you to use an authentication decorator to authenticate your client's requests.
You can provide a custom authentication decorator whichever suits your application usecase, e.g login_required, same_subnet, etc.

Default value for `BRIDGEQL_AUTHENTICATION_DECORATOR` will allow you to access API without authentication.

```python
BRIDGEQL_AUTHENTICATION_DECORATOR = 'bridgeql.auth.basic_auth'
```

`bridgeql.auth.basic_auth` is available as a basic authentication method where you can pass authorization header as `Authorization: Basic base64(username:password)` for each request.
____

### Build & Run

1. make test
2. source venv/bin/activate && tox
3. python -m pip install --upgrade build
4. python -m build

## Documentation

## Contributing

The bridgeql project team welcomes contributions from the community. Before you start working with bridgeql, please
read our [Developer Certificate of Origin](https://cla.vmware.com/dco). All contributions to this repository must be
signed as described on that page. Your signature certifies that you wrote the patch or have the right to pass it on
as an open-source patch. For more detailed information, refer to [CONTRIBUTING_DCO.md](CONTRIBUTING_DCO.md).


## Authors

Created and maintained by\
[Piyus Kumar](https://github.com/piyusgupta)\
[Priyank Singh](https://github.com/preyunk)

Copyright © 2023, VMware, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Commit message:

Update settings for BRIDGEQL_ALLOWED_APPS
settings configuration explained
verion updated

Signed-off-by: Piyus Kumar <piyusk@vmware.com>

README.md, after:

# BridgeQL


`bridgeql` is part of VMware's support for open source development
and community.

A library which will add feature to serve your model over rest API
* This will allow users to make ORM query based on any models present in the django app
* This will ask user to provide request in defined format and will serve the API response as json data
* This will allow users to make filter, selection, ordering, slicing and count of model objects

As of today we only support for [django](https://www.djangoproject.com/), will add support for [sqlalchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/) soon.


## License

`bridgeql` is release under the BSD-2 license, see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.

SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause

## Django Integration

### Installation

You can install it directly from [pypi.org](https://pypi.org/project/bridgeql/) using
```shell
pip install bridgeql
```

The bridgeql library can be integrated to the Django app by editing settings
file by including `bridgeql` in the `settings.INSTALLED_APPS` variable.
Another change required is to add a url to your existing project as

```
    projectname/projectname/settings.py
```

```python

INSTALLED_APPS = [
    ...
    'bridgeql',
    ...
    ]

```

**URLs Configuration**

In your project you can edit `urls.py`, to include the `bridgeql` urls.

```python
from bridgeql.django import urls as bridgeql_urls
...

urlpatterns = [
    ...
    path('api/bridgeql/', include(bridgeql_urls)),
    ...
]
...
```
This way your app will be ready to serve the REST API to expose model query, you can request an API like follows:
```python
    params = {
       'db_name': 'db1',
       'app_name': 'machine', # required
       'model_name': 'Machine', # required
       'filter': {
           'os__name': 'os-name-1'
        },
        'fields': ['ip', 'name', 'id'],
        'exclude': {
           'name': 'machine-name-11'
        },
        'order_by': ['ip'],
        'limit': 5,
        'offset': 10, # default 0
    }
    api_url = '<yoursite.com>/api/bridgeql/dj_read'
    resp = make_get_api_call(api_url, {'payload': json.dumps(params)})
    result = resp.json()
```

The above parameters will translate into running the model query for `Machine` model of `machine` django app.

```python
Machine.objects.using('db1')
                .filter(os__name = 'os-name-1')
                .exclude(name = 'machine-name-11')
                .values(['ip', 'name', 'id'])
                .order_by('ip')[10:15] # offset: offset + limit
```

____
### BridgeQL Settings

Settings available in `BridgeQL` and their default values

**BRIDGEQL_ALLOWED_APPS**

Default: `[list of local apps]` (list)

By default, it will try to lookup your local apps for the project, considering `settings.BASE_DIR` or `settings.SITE_ROOT` (whichever is found) as your project root directory. If none of this will be available, `WARNING` will be there to setup `BRIDGEQL_ALLOWED_APPS` as application starts up.

Adding values as list of desired apps to `BRIDGEQL_ALLOWED_APPS` will allow you expose models only for the selected apps.
This way you can add django backend apps as well as third party apps e.g. `django.contrib.auth` which can expose `User` model.
You can combine next settings `BRIDGEQL_RESTRICTED_MODELS` to restrict few columns of that particular model e.g `password`.

```python
BRIDGEQL_ALLOWED_APPS = ['machine', 'django.contrib.auth']
```
______

**BRIDGEQL_RESTRICTED_MODELS**

Default: `{}` (Empty dictionary)

Dictionary mapping **app_label.model_name** strings to list/bool(True). The value represents list of fields to be restricted for the model as provided in key. If the value is set to `True`, all the fields of that model will be restricted to lookup.

```python
BRIDGEQL_RESTRICTED_MODELS = {
    'auth.User': True,
    'machine.OperatingSystem': ['license_key'],
}
```
______

**BRIDGEQL_AUTHENTICATION_DECORATOR**

Default: `''` (Empty string)

Above setting allows you to use an authentication decorator to authenticate your client's requests.
You can provide a custom authentication decorator whichever suits your application usecase, e.g login_required, same_subnet, etc.

Default value for `BRIDGEQL_AUTHENTICATION_DECORATOR` will allow you to access API without authentication.

```python
BRIDGEQL_AUTHENTICATION_DECORATOR = 'bridgeql.auth.basic_auth'
```

`bridgeql.auth.basic_auth` is available as a basic authentication method where you can pass authorization header as `Authorization: Basic base64(username:password)` for each request.
____

### Build & Run

1. make test
2. source venv/bin/activate && tox
3. python -m pip install --upgrade build
4. python -m build

## Documentation

## Contributing

The bridgeql project team welcomes contributions from the community. Before you start working with bridgeql, please
read our [Developer Certificate of Origin](https://cla.vmware.com/dco). All contributions to this repository must be
signed as described on that page. Your signature certifies that you wrote the patch or have the right to pass it on
as an open-source patch. For more detailed information, refer to [CONTRIBUTING_DCO.md](CONTRIBUTING_DCO.md).


## Authors

Created and maintained by\
[Piyus Kumar](https://github.com/piyusql)\
[Priyank Singh](https://github.com/preyunk)

Copyright © 2023, VMware, Inc.  All rights reserved.
